
PART 2
Part 2 of the assignment is to build the database, insert all data, and write SQL queries to answer use case questions. We will be using DBT to insert our initial seed data, and write SQL statement to transform it.  Instead of a database, we will use Snowflake to store the data.

Your submitted file must include:
1) (6 PTS) Loading the provided data into DBT as seed files

2) (14 PTS; broken out below) SQL queries to answer User Case Questions, with resulting output

Note: it is good practice to save ALL code in files so it can be replicated and edited as needed.

Part 2 Total Points: 20

After building and populating your database, you will write SQL queries to answer the questions below.
Include your SQL code and results in your submitted file.

1) (1 PT) Which courses are currently included (active) in the program? Include the course mnemonic and course name for each.

2) (1 PT) Which courses were included in the program, but are no longer active? Include the course mnemonic and course name for each.

3) (1 PT) Which instructors are not current employees?

4) (1 PT) For each course (active and inactive), how many learning outcomes are there?

5) (2 PTS) Are there any courses with no learning outcomes? If so, provide their mnemonics and names.

6) (2 PTS) Which courses include SQL as a learning outcome? Include the learning outcome descriptions, course mnemonics, and course names in your solution.

7) (1 PT) Who taught course ds5100 in Summer 2021?

8) (1 PT) Which instructors taught in Fall 2021? Order their names alphabetically, making sure the names are unique.

9) (1 PT) How many courses did each instructor teach in each term? Order your results by term and then instructor.

10a) (2 PTS) Which courses had more than one instructor for the same term? Provide the mnemonic and term for each. Note this occurs in courses with multiple sections.

10b) (1 PT) For courses with multiple sections, provide the term, course mnemonic, and instructor name for each. Hint: You can use your result from 10a in a subquery or WITH clause.

Note: Question 10 is good preparation for SQL interview questions.
